the Falkirk wheel Scotland the full Kirk
wheel was opened in 2002 and connects
two canals it's the only rotating boat
elevator in the world
lifting vessels at 79 feet that's about
as tall as an eight story building you
can visit it with a one-hour tour and
travel by boat and elevator at the same
time Trumpy bicycle left Trondheim
Norway the first and only bicycle
elevator in the world was opened in 1993
it might not have the most impressive
speed lifting cyclers up a 425 foot hill
at 3 miles per hour but it serves an
important role first to give those
cyclists a break from local hilly
landscape and second to promote cycling
as a perfect way of public commute it
was renovated in 2013 and is also known
as the cyclo cable since rosewood
guangzhou elevator china the fastest
elevator in the world documented by
guinness world records in 2019 soars up
at the speed of 47 miles per hour
Espeon speed limits within residential
areas in most countries friendly to
appear if you're traveling with this
Ferrari of the elevators and your ears
pop try yawning or swallowing to fix it
Sky Tower elevator
Auckland New Zealand this one isn't the
tallest or the fastest in the world but
definitely one of the scariest for accra
folks like me there are glass windows in
the floor that give you the feeling
you're soaring across the sky at the
height of a 70 storey building or the
feeling that you're about to fall and go
splat mmm no thanks
Hamid chuan elevator Switzerland if
you're looking for a way to enjoy the
best views of lake lucerne in style well
here's an idea you can see it from
Europe's highest exterior elevator that
takes you up 500 feet in less than a
minute a part of that trip is going
inside the rock on the cliffside when
that was just opened up in 1905 the ride
took 3 minutes but progress helps
speeding it up water elevator Hawaii the
world's only water El
Vader was built in 1991 in Hawaii's
Grand Wailea resort the owner of the
waterpark wanted to give his physically
disabled son a chance to enjoy the water
slides and so he invented a unique
construction passengers enter a cave
through a small door then they get on a
metal platform the operator closes the
door and 16,000 gallons of water are
pumped inside to lift the platform to
the top of the slide to let the platform
down the water is simply drained out of
the cave pool Aquadome Berlin Germany
Aquadome elevator isn't powered by water
but has plenty surrounding it it goes up
and down in an 82 foot tall aquarium
tank made of reinforced glass with 1,500
fish of 50 different species inside it
was opened at the Radisson Blu Hotel in
Berlin Mitte in 2004 and costs around 14
million dollars to build professional
divers clean the tank and feed the fish
inside every day whom eat a hunk you
building elevator Osaka Japan an
elevator the size of an average studio
apartment transports up to 80 passengers
at a time or five tons of any cargo it
was designed for an office building
where actual offices start at the 15th
floor and all of their employees need
transportation there and higher at the
same time Globen sky view stockholm
sweden fancy a ride to the top of the
world's largest spherical building 425
feet above sea level globe and sky view
ball-shaped gondolas can take you up the
Ericsson Globe the speed isn't
mind-blowing as the trip takes 20
minutes but it's a perfect opportunity
to enjoy views of Stockholm from a
futuristic capsule in the first year
after launch Sky View received 160,000
visitors no worries about safety the
roof was made ultra strong with 42 tons
of steel especially for the elevator to
be installed QT hotel elevator Sydney
Australia this one has its own eclectic
style with textured black walls and
light patterns but what makes it really
cool and you
is the interactive musical feature it
has sensors that calculate the number of
passengers and turns on the most
appropriate soundtrack for the ride it
can be something like are you lonely
tonight for solo passengers just the two
of us for couples and party music for
groups of four people or more when
you're leaving the elevator it can utter
something like us the la vista baby
looks our hotel inclined elevator Las
Vegas now Vegas is known for its
eccentric hotels with some really crazy
architecture the famous pyramid Hotel
Luxor has an elevator traveling on an
incline of 39 degrees as one of its top
attractions passengers enjoy views of
the hotel atrium that spacious enough to
fit nine full-size jumbo jet planes they
see the lines to take a ride gross so
long the hotel had to get a Nile River
style boat to keep tourists busy with
something to do while they're waiting or
pay if the line is really long you can
build your own pyramid now that's not
true pater noster elevators across
Europe Pater Noster is kind of like a
revolving door that fits up to 20 people
at a time they all travel in separate
compartments for one or maximum two
persons that's slowly but steadily
moving loops between the floors there
are no closing or opening doors you just
step off at your destination
the concept of this elevator was
invented by an Englishman je Hall back
in 1884 and they spread across Europe in
Scandinavia
their safety is questionable but
hundreds of them are still functioning
elevator Lacerta bahia brazil the
world's first public elevator was built
in the Salvador neighborhood of Bahia in
the early 17th century it was a
construction used by immigrants to move
people and goods up and down using a
rope and pulley crane system two
centuries later it became steam operated
thanks to antonia de la serda a
businessman who studied engineering in
new york today it can carry up to 128
passengers at a time and 28,000
day between lower city and upper City
Oregon City Municipal elevator Oregon
Oregon City is built on two geographic
levels one down by the Willamette River
and the other on top of a basalt cliff
there is a vertical Street connecting
the two levels an outdoor municipal
elevator covering the distance of 130
feet up and down when it was first
opened in 1915 the elevator was powered
by water it was rebuilt 40 years later
and has been running on electricity ever
since fancy as it can be the elevator
has its operator and limited working
hours good to know before you plan a
visit mercedes-benz museum elevators
Stuttgart Germany there are plenty of
unique exhibits for those interested in
iconic car brand history at the Museum
but its elevators are a piece of art on
their own pill like capsules move on
three vertical tracks connecting the
past and the present of the motor world
the freaky light inside is just perfect
for creating a sense of traveling in
time
Auto stock car elevator Wolfsburg
Germany
this one doesn't transport people but
helps new car owners get their vehicles
from one of two giant car silos that are
connected to a VW factory by underground
tunnels the elevator carefully picks up
the selected car lifts it up and places
it in an open slot yep it's like a
vending machine for autos boy I hope you
don't need to deposit coins one by one
to get the car that could take weeks
[Music]